Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol (xmpp)
-------------------------------------------------

Chair(s):
Pete Resnick <presnick at qualcomm.com>

Applications Area Director(s):
Ned Freed <ned.freed at mrochek.com>
Patrik Faltstrom <paf at cisco.com>

Applications Area Advisor:
Patrik Faltstrom <paf at cisco.com>

Mailing Lists:
General Discussion:xmppwg at jabber.org
To Subscribe: xmppwg-request at jabber.org
In Body: subscribe
Archive:
http://www.jabber.org/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/xmppwg

Description of Working Group:

XMPP is an open, XML-based protocol for near real-time extensible 
messaging and presence. It is the core protocol of the Jabber Instant 
Messaging and Presence technology which is currently deployed on 
thousands of servers across the Internet and is used by millions of 
people worldwide. The XMPP working group shall adapt the XMPP for use 
as an IETF Instant Messaging and Presence technology.

The working group will use XMPP (as described in draft-miller-xmpp-*) 
as the basis of its work. The final specifications will be consistent 
as much as practical with both the requirements given in RFC2779 and 
the interoperability details in the final version of the CPIM 
specification (draft-ietf-impp-cpim). Note: If a requirement of 
RFC2779 or the final CPIM specification cannot be met, the working 
group will document why this requirement cannot be met.

A major goal of the working group will be to extend the current XMPP 
protocols to provide finished support for RFC 2779-compliant security 
mechanisms, including authentication, privacy, access control and 
end-to-end as well as hop-by-hop message security. 
Mandatory-to-implement security mechanisms will be specified as 
needed in order to guarantee secure protocol interoperability.

The working group shall also add support for internationalization and 
localization to XMPP.

Instant messaging differs from email primarily by requiring 
relatively short delivery latency guarantees and, typically, less 
robust transport service. In addition, instant messaging includes the 
notion of presence information so authorized users can determine if 
their correspondents are available.

BCP 41 will be the basis for working group consideration of the 
transport implications of the XMPP design with respect to network 
congestion.

Although not encouraged, non-backwards-compatible changes to the 
basis specifications will be acceptable if the working group 
determines that the changes are required to meet the group's 
technical objectives and the group clearly documents the reasons for 
making them.

There are facilities, such as chat rooms, shared white-boards and 
similar services that are not currently discussed in RFC2778 and 
RFC2779. When designing security mechanisms, the working group will 
keep in mind that we expect XMPP to be extended or adapted to 
facilitate these additional services, so that design decisions can be 
made that will not preclude providing these services in the future.

Goals and Milestones:

OCT 02       Prepare revised specifications reflecting issues and 
solutions identified by the working group

NOV 02       Meet at the 55th IETF to discuss current drafts

DEC 02       Submit revised specifications to the IESG for 
consideration as standards-track publications
