Organization: XMPP Standards Foundation                                 Page 1 of 2
EIN: 84-1611178
Form: 1023
Attachment: Part IV

The XMPP Standards Foundation ("XSF") is a standards development organization
quite similar in function to other Internet standards development organizations, 
such as the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). The XSF focuses on a 
particular domain of standards development (real-time communication) based on a
particular underlying technology known as the Extensible Messaging and Presence 
Protocol (XMPP), which was invented by Jeremie Miller in 1998, further
developed by the Jabber open-source software development community in 1999 and 
2000, and formalized by the IETF in 2002 and 2003, resulting in publication of
IETF RFCs 3920 and 3921 in 2004. Continuing development of XMPP technologies is 
of inherent interest to researchers and technologists in the fields of information 
science and computer networking, but also helps to facilitate open communication 
over the Internet though implementation and deployment of XMPP technologies.

The primary activity of the XSF is the standardization and publication of open 
extensions to XMPP for instant messaging, presence, and other forms of real-time 
communication over the Internet. These documents are called XMPP Extension 
Protocols (XEPs), and the XSF's standards process is defined in XEP-0001:

  http://www.xmpp.org/extensions/xep-0001.html

The standards development activity of the XSF is conducted mainly over the 
Internet itself through ongoing work, discussion, and publication. 

In particular, the XSF:

- Publishes a specification series that is provided free of charge on the 
  Internet at http://www.xmpp.org/extensions/

- Manages the process of defining, publishing, and discussing such
  specifications

- Works with potential authors of such specifications to define particular 
  technologies of interest

- Maintains open forums for discussion of XMPP technologies, including
  websites, electronic mail discussion lists, and real-time chat rooms

- Each quarter, elects new members of the XSF and re-affirms existing members
  from among those who apply for membership, based on technical contributions
  to XMPP technologies

- Once a year, elects via the membership both a technical steering committee
  (the "XMPP Council") and an organizational steering committee (the XSF 
  Board of Directors)

- Works with other standards development organizations (such as the Internet
  Engineering Task Force and the World Wide Web Consortium) on technologies of
  mutual interest

                                                                        Page 2 of 2

In addition to its primary activity of standards development, the XSF also pursues 
several secondary activities that support the implementation and application of
XMPP technologies to open, real-time communication. In particular, the XSF:

- Maintains a certification authority that issues free digital certificates for
  use by administrators of XMPP servers on the Internet

- Sends XSF representatives to select industry conferences when they are invited
  to speak about XMPP technologies

- Two or more times a year, holds in-person meetings among individuals who are 
  active in defining and applying XMPP technologies; these meetings are typically
  co-located with an industry conference in North America or Europe and are held
  for purposes such as interoperability testing and the exchange of research
  results

While the XSF is a membership organization whose members are individuals who 
are elected based on technical merit, participation in its standards development 
activity is open to any interested individual and is not limited to elected 
members of the organization. One hundred percent of the organization's activities 
are directed to standards development and related supporting activities. 

The standards developed by the XSF are implemented in a wide variety of software
applications and hardware devices. Implementations include open-source servers
and clients as well as commercial software and devices sold by vendors such as 
Apple, Nokia, and Sun Microsystems. XMPP technologies are also widely deployed
within the U.S. Government, at financial organizations, and by service providers
such as Bell South, Google, and Portugal Telecom. Individuals and organizations
that implement, deploy, and use XMPP technologies benefit indirectly from the
fact that open standards have been developed by the XSF, but do not benefit
directly financially or otherwise from the work of the XSF.

Because they are pursued mainly over the Internet, the activities of the XMPP 
Standards Foundation are inherently inexpensive to perform. Much of the work is
performed on a volunteer basis by individuals who are interested in the field
of real-time communication. The XSF has been funded through unsolicitied donations 
received from companies that are also active in this field or who use XMPP 
technologies to deploy real-time communication services. The XSF may also seek 
grants from grant-making foundations for work on specific applications of XMPP, 
such as voice communications over the Internet and high-security text communication.

Note: From its founding in August 2001 until December 2006, the XMPP Standards
Foundation functioned under the name "Jabber Software Foundation"; the name of
the organization was changed by a vote of the membership in December 2006.

