Organization: XMPP Standards Foundation
EIN: 84-1611178
Form: 1023
Attachment: Part V, Line 3a

J. Peter Saint-Andre, Executive Director, is Director of Standards at 
Jabber, Inc., a privately-held software development company in Denver,
Colorado. He has been helping to define XMPP technologies since 1999. 
He edited the XMPP specifications published by the Internet Engineering 
Task Force in 2004 and has written many of the XMPP Extension Protocol 
(XEP) documents published by the XMPP Standards Foundation (XSF). He also 
manages the XSF's standards process including editing and publication of 
the XEP series. In addition, his duties include management of day-to-day 
operations for the XSF. He has over ten years of experience in the field 
of Internet communication and collaboration. He typically works 40 hours 
a week on XSF business. 

Matt Tucker, Chair of the Board, is Chief Technology Officer and co-founder
of Jive Software, a privately-held software development company in Portland,
Oregon. He has over ten years of experience in software engineering, with a
focus on real-time communications. His duties include helping to lead the
business strategy of the organization, including a focus on marketing of 
XMPP technologies. He typically works 10 hours a month on XSF business.

Alexander Gnauck, Board Member and Secretary, is founder and principal of 
AG-Software, a privately-held software development and consulting company
in Heilbronn, Germany. He has over ten years of experience in software
engineering. His duties include helping to lead the business strategy of 
the organization, as well as the duties of the Secretary role (including 
issuance of meeting notices, running of meetings, certification of election
results, and maintenance of the organization's list of members and official 
records). He typically works 10 hours a month on XSF business.

Mickael Remond, Board Member, is founder and principal of Process-One, a
software development and consulting company in Paris, France. He has over
ten years of experience in software engineering. His duties include helping 
to lead the business strategy of the organization. He typically works 10 
hours a month on XSF business.

